¬ negation (NOT) The tilde ( ˜ ) is also often used,  
∧ conjunction (AND) The ampersand ( & ) or dot ( · ) are also often used,  
∨ disjunction (OR) This is the inclusive disjunction,  
equivalent to and/or in English,  
⊕ exclusive disjunction (XOR) ⊕ means that only one of the connected propositions is true,  
equivalent to either…or. Sometimes ⊻ is used,  
| alternative denial (NAND) Means “not both”. Sometimes written as ↑,  
↓ joint denial (NOR) Means “neither/nor”,  
→ conditional (if/then) Many logicians use the symbol ⊃ instead. This is also known as material implication,  
↔ biconditional (iff) Means “if and only if” ≡ is sometimes used,  
but this site reserves that symbol for equivalence,  
∀ universal quantifier Me,  
,  
ans “for all”,  
so ∀xPx means that Px is true for every x,  
∃ existential quantifier Means “there exists”,  
so ∃xPx means that Px is true for at least one x,  
⊨ implication α ⊨ β means that β follows from α,  
≡ equivalence Also ⇔. Equivalence is two-way implication,  
so α ≡ β means α implies β and β implies α,  
⊢ provability Shows provable inference. α is provable β means that from α we can prove that β,  
∴ therefore Used to signify the conclusion of an argument. Usually taken to mean implication,  
but often used to present arguments in which the premises do not deductively imply the conclusion,  
⊩ forces A relationship between possible worlds and sentences in modal logic,  
⊤ tautology May be used to replace any tautologous (always true) formula,  
⊥ contradiction May be used to replace any contradictory (always false) formula. Sometimes “F” is used,  
( ) parentheses Used to group expressions to show precedence of operations. Square brackets [ ] are sometimes used to clarify groupings,  
∈ membership Denotes membership in a set. If a ∈ Γ,  
then a is a member (or an element) of set Γ,  
∪ union Used to join sets. If S and T are sets of formula,  
S ∪ T is a set containing all members of both,  
∩ intersection The overlap between sets. If S and T are sets of formula,  
S ∩ T is a set containing those elemenets that are members of both,  
⊆ subset A subset is a set containing some or all elements of another set,  
⊂ proper subset A proper subset contains some,  
but not all,  
elements of another set,  
= set equality Two sets are equal if they contain exactly the same elements,  
∁ absolute complement ∁(S) is the set of all things that are not in the set S. Sometimes written as C(S),  
S or SC,  
- relative complement T - S is the set of all elements in T that are not also in S. Sometimes written as T \ S,  
∅ empty set The set containing no elements,  
□ necessarily Used only in modal logic systems. Sometimes expressed as [] where the symbol is unavailable,  
◊ possibly Used only in modal logic systems. Sometimes expressed as <> where the symbol is unavailable,   
